everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week we are
at CES 2020 right now and the show is
about to start but we're starting off
with a pre-show news show because
there's still a lot to talk about that
won't be in discussion otherwise for
example Samsung's one minute long power
outage that cost the money that the
company millions of dollars and damaged
wafers EVGA sr3 dark motherboard is up
for discussion again cool bits has an
icebox immersion system that should be
fun to talk about for alternative
cooling solutions rumors about am the
rumors about Nvidia and the dismissal of
some of those before that this video is
brought to you by Thermaltake stuff ram
RGB memory available from 3000 megahertz
up to 40 400 megahertz an 8 gigabyte by
two configurations the third will take
tough Ram uses 10 addressable RGB LEDs
for bright illumination and comes in
both black and white kits of memory
learn more at the link in the
description below so we have the show
all week of course check back on the
channel regularly will have multiple
uploads a day we typically do three or
four more than that for each day
especially the first few days a lot of
cool case companies stuff to talk about
this year there's some silicon products
we'll be talking about as well but
before all that Samsung's power outage
made the news 4 this is the second time
in recent history that a power outage
has massively affected wafer production
and supply for a memory manufacturer
recent reports from Yonhap news indicate
that Samsung suffered a power outage at
its fab in Hiwassee on South Korea feel
free to leave your criticism of my
pronunciation in the comment section
below the fab produces an and and DRAM
for memory and the disruption and power
brought production of both to a full
halt the outage was determined to be the
fault of a transmission cable exploding
at a nearby substation that subsequently
rendered the fab without power for about
one minute samsung has reported that the
downtime would last two to three days
and as of rioting there is no indication
of how many wafers were lost due to the
disruption in production however Yonhap
reports that the damage is expected to
be in the few billion wan range the
incident is likely to be relatively
minor overall compared to other power
outages in past for example in 2018
there was a power outage that samsung
suffered at its pion take
facility resulting in 60,000 damaged
wafers which for comparison was about a
forty three point three million dollar
loss for the company USD for that one
and this also comes at a time when
there's already discussion of NAND and
memory prices going up for 2020 so the
memory prices we've had finally in our
favor for once for a year those looks
like they're gonna go back up now this
is at the start of that two also one
more comment when Reed searching for the
story we noticed a lot of the internet
comments were about how why don't they
just have generators takes a little bit
more than a gas generator you'd have in
your home to keep a multi-billion dollar
fabrication plant running so I'm sure
they would have thought of that by now
if it were that simple
next one EVGA sr3 dark motherboard is
finally available for $1,800 $2,000
asking price with a two hundred dollar
rebate just to knock ten percent off for
you the sr3 dark motherboard is finally
available for the few of you who still
want one at this point not to say the
motherboards bad it's very unfortunate
actually that the motherboard is quite
good an EVGA spent a lot of time on it
but it launched at probably the least
opportunity time possible because the 31
75 X while exciting when it launched now
has competition from thread Ripper and
it's quite substantial competition we
recently did a revisit of the 31 75 X
and in almost all of our test scenarios
it was extremely difficult to justify
there were a few word did really well
where Andy was more memory bandwidth
bound but otherwise the sr3 should be
available and you probably don't have to
rush to buy it because it'll probably be
around for a bit since 31 75 X sales are
going to bottle and I get more than
anything else it's a problem with
depending on a partner to make your
product sell that's our three dark will
combat only two other motherboards
supporting Intel Xeon w31 75 X the asus
rog dominus extreme and gigabyte c6 2100
RS extreme Intel Xeon w31 75 X is based
on skylake SP silicon and as such uses
the LGA 3647 socket the socket that not
only requires a special motherboard but
also a special cooling solutions for
example the ACE attack 690 LX PN is a
$400 solution which is way more than
what it should cost it also runs
something like 70 DBA at 20 inches
distance it's terrifically loud ek is ek
Annihilator Pro water blocks are
actually really good for it but
expensive honestly they're probably more
water blocks at this point for these
things then there are actual CPUs or
motherboards in existence but you've got
options if you wanted them and you
should go
definitely custom water this one that
was a c6 22 chipset so it's a bit newer
version than what gigabyte and a/c start
running doesn't change how effective the
CPU is though next one cool bits and the
icebox
full immersion system that was shown at
a recent supercomputer conference anatec
was on hand at the annual supercomputing
tradeshow where an interesting product
from cool bits was spotted cool pitch
focuses on immersion cooling and the
company showed off its icebox five six
one fully immersed gaming system
question mark after the gaming there for
a non tax reporting the icebox five says
one is a single-phase system that comes
in a complete kit that includes a tank a
pump radiator fans and five gallons of
ec120 coolant the system is rated for
loads up to 750 watts and the display
system the company showed reportedly
used a twenty nine ninety WX hence the
question mark up gaming and an RT x
twenty atti peaking at six hundred
eighteen watts the liquid temperature
was reported to be thirty degrees
Celsius with the system under full load
via an intact article and the full kit
will set you back two thousand four
hundred fifty dollars for those
interested antics
Ian Contras recently discussed the
two-phase immersion liquid cooling in a
separate article that's well worth the
read check our show notes link below to
go check out their their articles on
that next one is a rumor navi 21 GPU
allegedly twice the size of na'vi ten
this is not one we have independently
verified recent rumors regarding the die
size for big navvy or navi 21 have
pointed towards a 2x increase in the
size some of the internet speculation
has jumped from two x size equals two x
performance probably be a little careful
with that kind of speculation because
one baseless and two that's often not
the case if ever navi 21 purportedly
boasts a die size of 505 millimeters
squared versus 251 millimeters squared
for the existing Navi GPUs and the 5000
series that beam I've eaten a v10 now B
21 will be built on a allegedly built on
a second-generation rDNA architecture we
might hear about this more this week in
the next couple days from AMD which is
why I'm not really providing any opinion
on this right now we'll wait and see on
that but
should be a second-generation 700-plus
process not've so from TSMC still and
specifically would be at the n7 +
process from TSM see this is the same
process note that will underpin Zen 3
which we might hear more about this week
that's been in the news a lot as well
and then there's also support for GTR 6
memory which has been standard at this
point there's been mention of an D you
to see in the latest h BM to e memory
for these cards but it seems unlikely
for consumer grade cards perhaps for a
Radeon 7 counterpart in the professional
space and for the rest well we'll see
we'll just wait a couple days and see
what happens next one ZOTAC is finally
going to offer many pcs with Andy rising
processors so tech actually has had some
pretty good many pcs in the past that
we've covered and they just they've all
been Intel up until now so some of you
may remember when ZOTAC showed off its
ma 5 v 1 mini PC that posted support for
rise ins Raven Ridge ap use the ma 550
wand was shown off at both CES 2018 and
copy text 118 but never materialized in
the US market two years later ZOTAC is
again trotting out excuse that we'll
both support and these rise in CPU and
supposedly come to market we'll see at
any rate so taxon news e box ma 621 Nano
and z box CA 621 nano are said to be so
taxed first rise and powered many pcs
available in the US both SKUs will come
with and these embedded Rison 330
200-year processor that features vega 3
graphics and the biggest difference
between the two SKUs is that the ma 621
nano will be actively cooled and the CA
621 will be passively cooled otherwise
the systems appeared to have similar
specs to sodium slots for memory for
example one two and a half inch drive
bay 120 240 2 m dot two slot 802 11 AC
Wi-Fi bluetooth 4.2 and we'll know on
CES properties underway then a couple
quick ones I I had this section at the
end that I called small stories and non
stories one of the smaller stories was
AMD doing more 7 nanometre volume than
Apple a couple things here apples moving
to five nanometer so duh and that's why
I am these doing more volume on seven
enemy with tsmc than Apple is now
because they're moving ahead not that
that's a bad thing that they're doing a
lot of volume but it's
it's a bit big of a jump for the people
who are so so pro AMD right now that
they kind of lose sight the Apple does
what was it a billion dollars in a week
last year was one of their highest weeks
anyway
Nvidia ampere 50% better at half the
power this is another one that's gone a
bit off the rails so 50% better at half
the power is such a tremendous jump that
it's actually not believable and
probably not possible more likely what
this means the headlines for this
probably really what it means is 50%
better in some specific aspect at half
the power maybe ray tracing on RT cores
for example typically when Nvidia leaks
come out about stuff like that
that's what it's referring to it's some
specific aspect elements of the GPU
where it's better and lower power not
the entire thing because rasterization
performance at 50% increased with 50%
power reduction once you scale it back
to 100% power ie same as now it starts
to get not realistic the 3980 x this is
one of the small stories 48 core CPU
that supposed to exist on the thread
Ripper we'll learn more later 5,600 X T
thick to Pro staging is a card that will
exist and it has marketing like newly
enhanced open-air design you're welcome
world and XFX that was us when we found
out that the worst thing about their
thick card was all the plastic around
the ventilation that made it bad so it
looks like that might be improved we'll
test it and find out and I need to get
to the thick three at some point maybe
after CES and also it said 100% chopper
GPU memory heatsink again you're welcome
that's it for this one check back for
the rest of CES coverage subscribe for
all of that or you go to stored I can't
resist net to helps out directly it's
getting very dark now so we will see you
all next time
[Music]